[JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING]
[DING]
[LIGHTS BUZZING]
[EXPLOSION]
Hello, and welcome
to "Supercharged."
Now this is a kind of TL;DW.
Last week I did a live
stream with [? Surma ?] where
we made some swipeable cards.
Now you probably
recognize swipeable cards
from things like Google Now,
where you just kind of take
a card and you dismiss it.
And you'll notice, you'll
see what I've got on screen.
This is what we ended up making.
You see, dismiss it, all
that kind of good stuff
Now the idea is, if
you've not got an hour
to watch that live stream
back-- although if you can
I would recommend
it, and you can
find the link to that
below-- if you can't, that's
exactly what this is for.
I want to step
through the things
that we learned, the
things that we did,
and just so you can get an
insight into what actually
went into it.
So before we actually get
started, what I want to do
is I want to step
over to Theory Corner.
Oh yeah, theory, love theory.
And what we can do
in Theory Corner
is discuss what we need to do.
Join me.
Welcome to Theory Corner.
You can tell it's Theory
Corner because there's
some theory in a corner.
Now this is what we have.
We've got the cards.
You can tell it's a card
because it says "card."
The cards have will
change transform on it.
The idea I have here is
that we want each card to be
transformed around the screen.
And so we want to give
each card its own layer.
The compositor then
can move those around
with the help of a GPU.
So long as we stick
to transform, opacity,
and we set will change,
we should be good.
So we move the card as
you touch and swipe.
But as you get
across to this side,
we have this marker like 0.35.
Now I picked that at random.
You can pick a different number.
0.35, if you go past that
point, we basically say, well
this card is being dismissed.
So we slide it off to the side.
The other thing that
we're going to do
is we're going to
change the opacity.
So the further you
go across, the lower
the opacity in both directions.
So that works there.
OK, so we're going to put
each card in its own layer
and shift it side to
side and fade it out.
Let's go back to reality.
What we're going
to do here is we're
going to step into the code.
So you can actually see bit
by bit what we actually did.
Here's the cards, and
what we do first of all
is we basically create
an array from the cards
that we've got in the document.
So we'd have to have some kind
of code that adds or removes
those cards later on.
But don't worry about that.
We'll just get on with
what we've got here.
The next thing to
notice is that I've
got these named functions
on start, on move, on end,
and update.
Now the first three
are our input events,
and I choose to do it this way.
What I do is I take a copy of
it by calling dot bind on this
and that takes it
from the prototype
into the actual instance.
But it does another
thing for me as well.
It means that it's
bound to the instance.
So that in those
functions, when I say this
dot whatever, it's actually
applying to the instance
and not to the target's event.
No wait, the event's target.
One of those two.
So it also does
something else for me.
It means that I can do
the add event listener
and remove event listener.
And I can call it by name and I
can say like this dot on start,
for example.
You see that down here in
the add event listener.
So I do add event listener for
touch start, touch move, touch
end, mouse down, mouse
move and mouse up.
All of them, yay.
And I can just basically say on
start, on move, on end, and so
on.
And if I wanted to do the
remove event listeners,
I could do that.
And it would just
work out fine for me.
So we've got our
event listeners,
and we have a bunch
of variables here
that are just sort of
housekeeping things
that we need to keep a track on.
The other thing I do is I
start the requestAnimationFrame
where I busily sort of
kind of do an update.
Now if you're doing
this in production,
I would suggest you don't
do it quite like this.
I would start the
requestAnimationFrame when
the user starts interacting.
And then when the
animation is finished,
I would stop doing the
requestAnimationFrame loop.
But for the case of this,
just to keep things simple.
I just start it
right at the start
and I do a kind of
busy loop through.
So what we actually do in
the on start, on movement,
on end event listeners--
Wow, saying event listeners
over and over and over and over
and over again, that's
not confusing for me.
No.
What do we do in those?
Well first in the on start,
the main thing is this.
We basically take a
marker for the start
position of the interaction.
Where does the user put their
finger down on the screen?
And we get that with page x.
The other thing we do is
we take a copy of that
for the current position.
Because as we move
our finger, we're
going to update the
current position
so we know where we started
and where we currently are.
And the difference is how far
we want to transform the card.
The other things that
we do in this is we
set the dragon card to say true.
But, as we discussed
in Theory Corner,
we set will change to transform.
Now we can check
that that actually
works by going back to the
code bringing up dev tools.
And in the rendering
settings, we're
going to show layer borders.
Anything that's
got its own layer
is going to go orange
around its border.
You ready?
So when I click, you can see
that immediately the card
gets its own layer,
which is really cool.
That means that we can
transform and move it
around cheaply like we
discussed over there
in the theory corner.
Here's what we've
got in the on move.
It's fairly straightforward.
All we do is we take the
current position of the input
and we basically said
that's the current x.
Now inside the
update, what we can do
is we can say if they're
dragging the card, the screen x
which is basically the position
of the card on the screen
is the current minus the start.
That's basically how
far they've moved.
And we can apply the
transform to account for that.
(SINGING) Ta-da!
Now when the user
stops interacting,
we actually have
to make a decision.
If you remember over
in Theory Corner
we said, if the user is past
that 0.35 marker, so it's
sort of a zero to
one range, One being
the full distance of the
card, zero being not at all.
If they go past 0.35--
which is what I've chosen,
but you can choose a different
number-- what we want to say
is they are dismissing the card.
And we do this by
setting a target x which
we use later on in the update.
And here we do
screen x plus equals
the target minus the
current screen x over 4.
What this is going
to do is it's going
to ease the card to that final
position, which will either
be the center or it
will be off to the side
depending on whether
we've decided
that they've gone past the
point of dismissal or not.
Then there's a little bit
of tidy up that we do here.
We basically normalize
the drag distance.
And we use that to
set the opacity so
that the further across you
get, the more fadey the card is.
(SINGING) Ta-da!
So far, so good.
So the last little
bit is what we
do when you dismiss the card.
Because what we want
to do is we want
to slide all the other
cards into place.
And we do that with
this animate other cards
into position function.
Let me show you what it
looks like without that.
Switch off the layer borders.
OK.
Here's what it looks
like without that.
You see all the
other cards just snap
into place, which you could do,
but doesn't look quite so nice.
So what we need to do is we need
to transform them down quickly
to where they moved
from, which will
be the height of the
card plus the margin.
We see that here.
So we take every card that's
after the current one, which
is this.
And we basically say
translate yourself
the height of a card plus 20
pixels, which is the margin.
And again, this is hard coded
so you'd probably make this more
dynamic in production.
And then we basically go from
that to no transform at all.
And we use an easing
of this cubic bezier
and a duration of
150 milliseconds.
And all we need to do
is just say card dot
animate with those settings.
And then when you
finished, we say
the animation is
complete at which point
we can just reset the
target and call it a day.
And the animation is done.
So with that switched
on, you can see
we get a nice smooth animation.
So the only other
thing to notice
is when I'm
dismissing the cards,
you can see that the other
ones get their own layer
temporarily.
This because we're using
element dot animate
and we're using a transform.
And that means that
those get temporarily
promoted to their own layer.
Cool.
That means that it's also
doing the same thing that we
had over in Theory Corner.
Getting its own
layer, which means
it happens nice
and performantly.
And then when it's finished,
the browser automatically
demotes them back,
and we're all good.
So there you have it.
That's swipeable cards.
If you've got time, make sure
you watch the live stream.
There's loads in there.
There's us finding
and fixing bugs.
There's just chatting
about the general approach.
All sorts of goodies in there.
Hopefully you've enjoyed
this little TL;DW.
Don't forget to
subscribe to the channel,
and I'll catch you
on the flip side.
[JAZZ MUSIC PLAYING]